>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 12:
AS GERMANY AND AUSTRIA PREPARE
TO RECEIVE MORE REFUGEES AND
MIGRANTS, HUNGARY LOOKS TO STOP
THE FLOW OF PEOPLE ACROSS ITS
BORDERS.
AND, IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
FINDING ALTERNATIVES TO
INCARCERATION FOR TEENAGE GIRLS
IN TROUBLE WITH THE LAW.
>> THEY CONSISTENTLY WORK WITH
ME, CONSTANTLY.
EVEN WHEN I WANT TO THROW IN THE
TOWEL, I HAVE TO TELL MYSELF,
"NO, I CAN'T, I CAN'T."
>> Sreenivasan: NEXT ON PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS IN
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
EUROPEAN LEADERS ARE TRYING TO
UNITE BEHIND A PLAN TO COPE WITH
THEIR ONGOING SURGE OF MIGRANTS
AND REFUGEES ARRIVING MAINLY
FROM THE MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA.
MORE THAN 430,000 MIGRANTS HAVE
CROSSED THE MEDITERRANEAN SEA
FOR EUROPE THIS YEAR, MOST
PUSHING TOWARD NORTHERN AND
WESTERN EUROPE.
ON MONDAY, THE 28-NATION
EUROPEAN UNION WILL HOLD AN
EMERGENCY SUMMIT IN BRUSSELS,
BELGIUM, TO TRY TO AGREE ON HOW
MANY ASYLUM SEEKERS EACH COUNTRY
WILL ACCEPT.
THE NEWSHOUR'S WILLIAM BRANGHAM
HAS BEEN REPORTING ALL WEEK FROM
HUNGARY, HE IS NOW IN VIENNA,
AUSTRIA AND I SPOKE TO HIM
EARLIER TODAY.
WILLIAM, AMONG THE EUROPEAN
COUNTRIES, HUNGARY HAS BEEN THE
MOST CRITICAL OF EUROPE'S
BROADER RESPONSE TO THE
REFUGEES' ARRIVAL.
YOU'VE BEEN THERE IN HUNGARY ALL
WEEK.
SO WHAT ARE THE HUNGARIANS
ARGUING OUGHT TO BE DONE WITH
THE THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE COMING
TO THEIR DOOR?
>> Reporter: WELL, HUNGARY IS
TRYING TO DO EVERYTHING IT
POSSIBLY CAN TO SHUT THAT DOOR.
THE PRIME MINISTER HAS BEEN VERY
CRITICAL OF THE WAY THE
EUROPEANS HAVE RESPONDED TO THE
MIGRANT CRISIS.
HE IS ARGUING FOR HIS COUNTRY
AND EUROPE AS A WHOLE THIS IS
ABOUT THEM DEFENDING THE
CHRISTIAN IDENTITY OF THE
LARGELY MUSLIM GROUP OF REFUGEES
COMING TO EUROPE.
AND HE HAS DONE MORE THAN
ANY OTHER EUROPEAN NATION TO DO
EVERYTHING HE CAN TO STOP THOSE
PEOPLE ARE COMING.
HE'S BUILDING A FENCE ALONG THE
BORDER IN SYRIA, AND HE'S
PRESSED FOR NEW LAWS AND
ABILITIES FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO
ARREST PEOPLE WHO ARE COMING IN.
SO AT THIS MEETING ON MONDAY IN
BRUSSELS, THE HUNGARIANS AND THE
HUNGARIAN POSITION IS GOING TO
BE ONE OF THE BIGGEST THORNS IN
THE SIDE OF THE E.U. MINISTERS
WHO ARE TRYING TO GET SOME KIND
OF A CONSENSUS HERE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE E.U. IS
PROPOSING A QUOTA SYSTEM WHERE
DIFFERENT NATIONS WOULD ACCEPT
DIFFERENT NUMBERS OF REFUGEES
DEPENDING ON THEIR SIZE AND
ECONOMIC STRENGTH.
SO HOW ARE THE MEMBER NATIONS
RESPONDING TO THIS JUDGED WHAT
ARE THE REMAINING CHALLENGES?
>> Reporter: RIGHT NOW IT'S
NOT LOOKING GOOD.
YESTERDAY, THE E.U. TRIED TO GET
SEVERAL CENTRAL EUROPEAN NATIONS
TO AGREE ON A TENTATIVE
AGREEMENT WITH REGARD TO THIS
QUOTA PLAN AND THAT WAS
REJECTED.
THE TRICKY PART OF ALL OF THIS
IS THE NUMBERS KEEP GETTING
BIGGER AND BIGGER.
THE E.U. RIGHT NOW IS HAGGLING
WITH THE ISSUE OF TRYING TO
SETTLE THE REFUGEES OVER THE
NEXT TWO YEARS.
EARLIER THIS WEEK, THE U.N. PUT
OUT AN ESTIMATE THAT WE WILL SEE
850,000 PEOPLE COMING IN OVER
THIS YEAR AND NEXT YEAR, SO THE
NUMBERS KEEP SNOWBALLING AND
THERE IS ACTUALLY SOME CONCERN
AS THESE NUMBERS GROW BIGGER AND
BIG THEY'RE THAT GROWING NUMBER
COULD EVEN UNDERMINE SOME OF THE
GOOD WILL THAT EXISTS IN SOME OF
THE FRIENDLIER NATIONS,
SO-CALLED FRIENDLIER NATIONS,
LIKE SWEDEN AND GERMANY, THAT IF
THEY SEE INCREASE NUMBERS OF
PEOPLE COMING TO THEIR BORDERS
THEY MIGHT GET COLD FEET ABOUT
THIS WHOLE IDEA.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU SPENT A
WEEK THIS WEEK TALKING WITH
SEVERAL REFUGEES.
WHAT HAVE YOU BEEN HEARING FROM
THEM ABOUT WHY THEY'RE COMING,
WHY THEY'RE TAKING THIS RISK ON
THIS JOURNEY OR WHY NOW AFTER
YEARS OF WAR.
>> QUITE SIMPLY, IT'S BEEN THE
SYRIAN CIVIL WAR.
THE MAJORITY OF PEOPLE WE MET
WERE SYRIANS AND THEY SAID THEY
LEFT THEIR COUNTRY BECAUSE OF
THE VIOLENCE TEARING THEIR
COUNTRY APART FOR THE LAST FIVE
YEARS.
WE MET A FATHER EARLIER THIS
WEEK WHO TOLD ME A STORY ABOUT
HIS FOUR-YEAR-OLD DAUGHTER.
HE WAS TRAVELING WITH HIS
FOUR-YEAR-OLD AND A
THREE-YEAR-OLD.
HE SAID HIS FOUR-YEAR-OLD
DAUGHTER IS NOW RELUCTANT TO LET
HIM WALK OUT THE DOOR ANY TIME
BECAUSE SHE'S NOT SURE HE IS
GOING TO COME BACK IN.
I THINK IF YOU'RE A FATHER, IF
YOU'RE ANY PARENT, AND THE WAR
ALL AROUND YOU HAS GOTTEN SO
PERVASIVE THAT YOUR
FOUR-YEAR-OLD DAUGHTER IS AFRAID
TO LET YOU GO OUT THE DOOR TO
WORK IN THE MORNING, I THINK
MOST PARENTS WOULD AGREE THAT'S
A GOOD REASON TO LEAVE YOUR LIFE
BEHIND.
>> Sreenivasan: PEOPLE HAVE
BEEN FLEEING SYRIA SINCE THE WAR
STARTED 4 AND A HALF YEARS AGO.
>> Reporter: THE SYRIAN
REFUGEE CRISIS IS NOT A NEW
THING.
IT'S BEEN GOING ON AS LONG AS
THE SYRIAN WAR, WHICH IS 2011.
THE THING THAT IS NEW IS WHERE
THE REFUGEES ARE GOING.
FOR YEARS THE REFUGEES SIMPLY
POURED INTO THE BORDERING ARAB
STATES-- JORDAN, TURKEY, AND
LEBANON.
AND THE NUMBER THERE ARE PRETTY
STAGGERING.
IT'S ESTIMATED THAT THREE TO
FOUR MILLION PEOPLE HAVE NOW
FLED SYRIA AND GONE INTO THOSE
NATIONS.
IF YOU LOOK AT PLACES LIKE THE
SATARI REFUGEE CAMP IN JORDAN,
IT HAS BECOME ONE OF THE BIGGEST
CITIES IN THAT ENTIRE COUNTRY.
SO WHILE THE NUMBERS COMING TO
EUROPE ARE LARGE, THEY PALE IN
COMPARISON.
>> Sreenivasan: WILLIAM
BRANGHAM JOINING US FROM
AUSTRIA, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANKS, HARI.
>> Sreenivasan: AS MANY
AS 10,000 MIGRANTS ARE EXPECTED
TO ARRIVE IN MUNICH TODAY.
GERMANY TAKES IN MORE ASYLUM
SEEKERS THAN ANY OTHER COUNTRY
IN EUROPE AND EXPECTS TO HANDLE
AT LEAST 800,000 THIS YEAR.
FOR MORE ON THAT, WE ARE JOINED
VIA SKYPE BY NOAH BARKIN OF
REUTERS.
HOW IS GERMANY RECEIVING THIS
INFLUX OF HUMANITY DAY AFTER
DAY?
>> WELL, WE'VE ALL SEEN THE
PICTURES, THE IMAGES IN THE
MEDIA, GERMANS WELCOMING ASYLUM
SEEKERS WHO COME OVER FROM
HUNGARY THROUGH AUSTRIA, MOST OF
THEM ARRIVING IN MUNICH,
WELCOMING THEM WITH OPEN ARMS,
SIGNS OF WELCOME, HANDING OUT
BANANAS AND CHOCOLATE BARS AND
THINGS LIKE THAT.
THAT'S WHAT WE'VE SEEN OVER THE
PAST WEEK BUT THERE ARE SIGNS
THAT THE MOOD IS SHIFTING, AND
AS MORE COME IN.
WE HAVE ABOUT I THINK 4,000 CAME
IN, INTO MUNICH THIS MORNING.
THEY'RE EXPECTING ANOTHER 7,000
OR SO BY THE END OF THE DAY, AND
THE GERMAN FOREIGN MINISTER SAID
YESTERDAY THAT THERE COULD BE AS
MANY AS 40,000 WHO COME IN THIS
WEEKEND.
THAT WOULD BE DOUBLE WHAT WE SAW
LAST WEEKEND.
SO THERE IS A BIT OF CONCERN
HERE IN GERMANY THAT THE INFLUX
WON'T STOP.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THERE
POLITICAL PRESSURE ON THE ANGELA
MERKEL NOW?
>> MERKEL IS HUGELY POPULAR.
SHE HAS RECORD POPULARITY
RATINGS, UNPRECEDENTED IN
POSTWAR GERMANY.
SO SHE'S IN A GOOD POSITION.
THE GERMAN ECONOMY IS DOING
WELL, AND I THINK THAT'S ONE OF
THE REASONS, ONE OF THE MAIN
REASONS SHE CAN DO THIS.
BUT I SPOKE WITH ONE OF HER TOP
ADVISERS ON THURSDAY, AND THAT
PERSON SAID THAT THE MOOD CAN
SHIFT VERY QUICKLY.
WE'RE ALREADY SEEING ATTACKS
FROM HER CONSERVATIVE SISTER
PARTY, THE CHRISTIAN SOCIAL
UNION, WHICH IS BASED IF
BAVARIA.
THAT'S WHERE MOST OF THE
REFUGEES ARE COMING IN.
SHE HAS TO BE CONCERNED ABOUT
THE MOOD SHIFTING, CERTAINLY.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
THERE WERE ALSO STORIES TODAY
ABOUT MARCHES ALL ACROSS EUROPE
IN SOLIDARITY WITH THE REFUGEES.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
IT'S BEEN INTERESTING.
WE SAW MERKEL WELCOME THESE
REFUGEES WITH OPEN ARMS, SCENES
OF HER TAKING-- REFUGEES TAKING
SELFIES WITH HER WHEN SHE
VISITED A SHELTER THIS WEEK.
AND THAT SEEMS TO HAVE HAD AN
EFFECT ON THE REST OF EUROPE.
THERE WAS A FRENCH MAGAZINE THAT
PUT A BIG PICTURE OF AMERICA ON
ITS COVER THIS WEEK AND SAID,
"IF ONLY SHE WERE FRENCH."
SO THERE IS A BIT OF AN
OUTPOURING OF SYMPATHY TOWARDS
THE REFUGEES, I THINK PARTLY
BECAUSE GERMANY HAS BEEN SO
WELCOMING, BUT THERE ARE OTHER
COUNTRIES -- HUNGARY, FOR
EXAMPLE-- WHICH IS PUSHING THE
REFUGEES OUT AS FAST AS THEY
CAN.
>> Sreenivasan: IN THE LONGER
TERM PICTURES, DO YOU SEE
GERMANY EMBRACING THESE REFUGEES
AS PERHAPS THE FUTURE OF THEIR
ECONOMY?
I MEAN, THESE ARE YOUNG,
SOMETIMES VERY SKILLED PEOPLE
THAT ARE COMING IN.
>> Reporter: WELL, THAT'S THE
BIG QUESTION.
I MEAN, GERMANY DOES HAVE A
HISTORY OF IMMIGRATION.
THERE WERE LOTS OF TURKS,
GREEKS, ITALIANS WHO CAME AFTER
WORLD WAR II TO HELP REBUILD THE
ECONOMY.
SO THIS IS SOMETHING A LOT OF
GERMANS HAVE IN THEIR-- YOU
KNOW, THEY HEARD AROUND THE
DINNER TABLE WHEN YOUNG.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME, I THINK
THE KEY THINGS ARE IF GERMANS
FEEL THE GOVERNMENT HAS THIS
UNDER CONTROL, IT'S TOO EARLY TO
SAY WHETHER WE'RE GOING TO SEE--
WHETHER THIS SAME SORT OF
ACCEPTANCE IS GOING TO BE HERE
IN A FEW MONTHS.
WE HAVE THE WINTER COMING, AND
THE AUTHORITIES ARE GOING TO
HAVE TO FIND WINTER-PROOF
SHELTERS FOR THESE REFUGEES.
IF THEY DON'T, IF THEY'RE UNABLE
TO DO THAT AND IT'S A HUGE TASK,
THEN YOU COULD SEE THE MOOD
BEGINNING TO SHIFT.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
NOAH BARKIN OF REUTERS JOINING
US LIVE FROM GERMANY TONIGHT,
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: IN INDIA, A P
OF EXPLOSIONS HAS KILLED AT
LEAST 89 PEOPLE IN PETLAWAD, A
TOWN IN THE CENTRAL PART OF THE
COUNTRY.
THE FIRST BLAST OCCURRED WHEN A
COOKING GAS CYLINDER INSIDE A
RESTAURANT EXPLODED.
AUTHORITIES DON'T KNOW WHY.
BUT THAT TRIGGERED A SECOND
EXPLOSION OF MINE DETONATORS
THAT WERE ILLEGALLY STORED
NEARBY.
THE RESTAURANT, NEXT TO A BUS
STATION, WAS DESTROYED.
MANY VICTIMS HAD BEEN EATING
BREAKFAST THERE.
ABOUT 100 OTHER PEOPLE WERE
TREATED AT HOSPITALS FOR
INJURIES.
IN CALIFORNIA, A WILDFIRE IS
THREATENING 6,000 HOMES IN
MOUNTAIN TOWNS SOUTHEAST OF
SACRAMENTO.
THE FIRE IN THE SIERRA NEVADAS
BEGAN WEDNESDAY AND NOW COVERS
65,000 ACRES.
IT IS ONLY 10% CONTAINED AND HAS
DESTROYED AT LEAST 15 HOMES.
ANOTHER, LARGER WILDFIRE IS
THREATENING CALIFORNIA'S TALLEST
TREES.
THAT FIRE, WHICH SPARKED IN
JULY, HAS SPREAD TO WITHIN A
MILE OF THE FAMOUS SEQUOIA
GROVES IN KINGS CANYON NATIONAL
PARK.
CALIFORNIA COULD BECOME THE
FIFTH U.S. STATE TO LEGALIZE
PHYSICIAN-ASSISTED SUICIDE.
THE STATE LEGISLATURE PASSED A
BILL FRIDAY THAT WOULD ALLOW
TERMINALLY ILL PATIENTS TO
REQUEST A PRESCRIPTION TO END
THEIR LIVES.
BUT TWO DOCTORS WOULD BE
REQUIRED TO AFFIRM A PATIENT HAS
ONLY SIX MONTHS TO LIVE.
THE BILL NOW GOES TO CALIFORNIA
GOVERNOR JERRY BROWN, WHO HAS
NOT INDICATED IF HE WILL SIGN
IT.
OREGON FIRST APPROVED DOCTOR-
ASSISTED SUICIDE IN 1997,
FOLLOWED BY WASHINGTON, MONTANA,
AND VERMONT.
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT HAS
CLEARED A UNIVERSITY PROFESSOR
PREVIOUSLY ACCUSED OF PASSING
TECHNOLOGY SECRETS TO CHINA.
IN MAY, FEDERAL PROSECUTORS
ALLEGED XI XIAOXING, HAD SHARED
BLUEPRINTS FOR SUPERCONDUCTOR
EQUIPMENT MADE BY A U.S.
COMPANY.
DOCTOR XI, AN AMERICAN CITIZEN
OF CHINESE HERITAGE, CHAIRED THE
PHYSICS DEPARTMENT AT TEMPLE
UNIVERSITY, IN PHILADELPHIA.
HIS ATTORNEY SAYS: THE F.B.I.
MISUNDERSTOOD THE SCIENCE AND
NEGLECTED TO CONSULT WITH
OUTSIDE EXPERTS BEFORE BRINGING
CHARGES, AND THAT THE
PROFESSOR'S EMAILS-- INTERCEPTED
BY INVESTIGATORS-- WERE ROUTINE
ACADEMIC COLLABORATIONS ABOUT
UNRESTRICTED TECHNOLOGIES.
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS UNVEILED A
NEW "COLLEGE SCORECARD" TO HELP
FAMILIES FIGURE OUT THE COSTS
AND THE POTENTIAL RETURN ON
THEIR INVESTMENT IN HIGHER
EDUCATION.
THE WEBSITE,
collegescorecard.ed.gov, RATES
SCHOOLS BY HOW MUCH MONEY THEIR
GRADUATES EARN AND STUDENT LOAN
DEBT THEY TAKE WITH THEM.
IN HIS WEEKLY RADIO ADDRESS
TODAY, THE PRESIDENT SAID
EVERYONE SHOULD BE ABLE TO FIND
CLEAR DATA ON COLLEGE
AFFORDABILITY AND VALUE.
>> Sreenivasan: IN TONIGHT'S
SIGNATURE SEGMENT, WE LOOK AT
EFFORTS TO REDUCE THE NUMBER OF
TEENAGE GIRLS WHO ARE LOCKED UP
FOR CRIMES.
IT TURNS OUT A LARGE PERCENTAGE
OF GIRLS WHO BECOME JUVENILE
DELINQUENTS ARE VICTIMS OF
CRIMES THEMSELVES-- PARTICULARLY
PHYSICAL AND SEXUAL ABUSE.
FLORIDA IS TAKING A LEAD TO CURB
THIS ABUSE-TO-PRISON PIPELINE
WITH ALTERNATIVES TO
INCARCERATION.
THE NEWSHOUR'S MEGAN THOMPSON
REPORTS OUR STORY, AS PART OF
OUR SERIES "BROKEN JUSTICE,"
ABOUT CHANGING ATTITUDES TOWARD
IMPRISONMENT IN AMERICA.
>> Reporter: ON AN AFTERNOON IN
AUGUST, 17-YEAR-OLD SOOZEE
STUART- THERE IN THE PINK
DRESS-- STANDS BEFORE A JUDGE IN
JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA.
OVER THE LAST FEW YEARS, SHE'S
BEEN CHARGED WITH DOMESTIC
BATTERY, RESISTING ARREST AND
POSSESSION OF MARIJUANA, AND
CYCLED IN AND OUT OF JUVENILE
DETENTION.
>> YES SIR.
>> Reporter: SHE VIOLATED
PROBATION REPEATEDLY AND WAS ON
THE ROAD TO A LONG-TERM
SENTENCE.
BUT THAT'S NOT GOING TO HAPPEN
TODAY.
>> JUST KEEP UP THE GOOD WORK,
AND DON'T EVER GIVE UP.
>> Reporter: BECAUSE THIS IS
GIRLS COURT.
A YEAR-OLD EXPERIMENT TO
REHABILITATE RATHER THAN
INCARCERATE DELINQUENT GIRLS.
STUART'S ONE OF THE FIRST NINE
TEENS TO GO THROUGH IT.
GIRL'S COURT RECOGNIZES THAT,
WHILE MANY OF THESE GIRLS
COMMITTED CRIMES, MANY ARE ALSO
VICTIMS.
>> GIRLS EXPERIENCE TRAUMA AT A
DIFFERENT FREQUENCY AND
DIFFERENT KINDS OF TRAUMA THAN
BOYS, GIRLS REACT DIFFERENTLY,
AND RESPOND TO THAT TRAUMA
DIFFERENTLY.
>> Reporter: A 2014 STUDY
SHOWED, 31% OF GIRLS IN
FLORIDA'S JUVENILE JUSTICE
SYSTEM HAVE BEEN SEXUALLY
ABUSED.
THAT'S FOUR TIMES THE RATE OF
BOYS.
41% OF GIRLS HAVE BEEN
PHYSICALLY ABUSED.
GIRLS LIKE SOOZEE STUART.
>> I FELT LIKE A REJECT.
I FELT LIKE I COULDN'T GET IT
RIGHT, NO MATTER WHAT.
>> Reporter: TO HEAR STUART TELL
IT, HER PROBLEMS BEGAN WHEN SHE
WAS NINE YEARS OLD.
HER MOTHER WAS IN PRISON FOR A
DOMESTIC DISPUTE WITH A
BOYFRIEND.
AND STUART SAYS HER FATHER WAS
PHYSICALLY ABUSIVE.
SHE SPENT TIME IN FOSTER CARE
AND A STATE HOME FOR TROUBLED
KIDS.
AT 15, SHE RAN AWAY.
THEN BECAME A TEEN MOM.
>> ANGRY.
DISAPPOINTMENT.
CONFUSION.
YOU KNOW, I DIDN'T KNOW WHO I
WAS, OR WHAT MY WORTH WAS.
MY SELF-ESTEEM WAS SO LOW, IT'S
NOT EVEN FUNNY.
>> Reporter: AFTER HER FIRST
ARREST, A DOMESTIC BATTERY
CHARGE, AND THEN DETENTION,
STUART SAYS SHE NEEDED HELP BUT
NEVER FOUND ANYONE SHE COULD
TRUST.
HOW DO YOU FEEL LIKE YOU WERE
TREATED ALONG THE WAY?
>> I FEEL LIKE EVERYBODY HAD AN
ATTITUDE OF, "YOU'RE NOT GOING
TO MAKE IT ANYWAYS."
SO, I STARTED BELIEVING IT.
BACK THEN I WAS LIKE, "I AIN'T
GOT NOTHING TO LOSE.
I'M GOING TO GET LOCKED UP
ANYWAYS."
DOING STUFF I WASN'T SUPPOSED
TO, I'D DO IT AT THE DROP OF A
DIME, BECAUSE EVERYONE MADE ME
FEEL LIKE THAT'S WHAT- THAT'S
ALL I WAS WORTH.
>> Reporter: JUVENILE DETENTION
ONLY REINFORCED HER LOW
EXPECTATIONS, EVEN WHEN SHE WAS
RELEASED.
>> I SAID, "OKAY, I'M LEAVING.
Y'ALL WON'T SEE ME AGAIN.""
NO, YOU'LL BE BACK."
THAT'S THE KIND OF STUFF THEY
TOLD US.
YOU KNOW?"
YOU'LL BE BACK."
>> Reporter: AND SHE WAS-- BY
HER COUNT AROUND SIX TIMES.
SO HER PROBATION OFFICER
RECOMMENDED HER CASE BE
TRANSFERRED TO THE NEW GIRLS
COURT.
IT WAS LAUNCHED BY JUDGE DAVID
GOODING AND CHILDREN'S ADVOCATES
LIKE LAWANDA RAVOIRA.
SHE RUNS THE DELORES BARR WEAVER
POLICY CENTER, AN ADVOCACY AND
COUNSELING GROUP FOR GIRLS IN
JACKSONVILLE.
>> WHAT WE SEE OFTEN TIMES WHEN
THE GIRLS HAVE HAD A TRAUMATIC
EXPERIENCE SHE DOESN'T ALWAYS
HAVE A VOCABULARY TO EXPLAIN
WHAT'S GOING ON.
AND SO, SHE WILL ACT OUT.
>> Reporter: ALTHOUGH THE TOTAL
NUMBER OF BOTH GIRLS AND BOYS
ENTERING THE JUVENILE JUSTICE
SYSTEM HAS DROPPED IN
JACKSONVILLE AND ACROSS THE
NATION, RATES HAVE DROPPED MORE
SLOWLY FOR GIRLS.
RESEARCH SUGGESTS ZERO-TOLERANCE
POLICIES AND MORE AGGRESSIVE
POLICING OF THINGS LIKE FIGHTS
AT HOME HAVE IMPACTED GIRLS MORE
THAN BOYS.
>> OFTEN, THE SYSTEM'S RESPONSE
IS TO PUSH GIRLS AWAY, BY
PUNISHING THEM, AND NOT GETTING
TO THE ROOT CAUSE OF WHAT'S
DRIVING THE BEHAVIOR.
>> Reporter: TO BE CLEAR,
THOUGH, I MEAN, A LOT OF THESE
GIRLS HAVE COMMITTED SERIOUS
CRIMES AND THEY DO NEED TO BE
HELD ACCOUNTABLE FOR THEIR
BEHAVIOR.
RIGHT?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
WE WOULD BE THE FIRST TO SAY
THAT GIRLS MUST BE HELD
ACCOUNTABLE FOR THEIR BEHAVIORS.
BUT THAT HAS TO BE BALANCED WITH
RECOGNIZING WHERE WE HAVE FAILED
TO INTERVENE EARLY.
>> Reporter: EARLIER
INTERVENTION MAY HAVE HELPED MIA
PAZ.
AS A TEEN IN ORLANDO SHE CYCLED
IN AND OUT OF FLORIDA'S JUVENILE
JUSTICE SYSTEM.
>> THERE WAS RESISTING ARREST.
THERE WAS POSSESSION OF
MARIJUANA.
I ALSO HAD POSSESSION OF
ALCOHOL.
I HAD FLEEING AND ELUDING, A COP
CHASE, A CAR CHASE.
>> Reporter: PAZ BELIEVES SHE
WAS ACTING OUT BECAUSE OF TRAUMA
AT HOME.
SHE SAYS HER UNCLE BEGAN TO
SEXUALLY ABUSE HER WHEN SHE WAS
IN SEVENTH GRADE.
>> IT STARTED JUST, LIKE, VERY
AWKWARD AND WEIRD QUESTIONS.
AND THEN FEELING WEIRD FROM ALL-
UN-UNWANTED TOUCHING.
AND THEN IT WASN'T UNTIL I
THOUGHT, "NO, I DON'T WANT TO DO
THAT," THEN IT WAS MORE VIOLENT.
>> Reporter: SHE BEGAN GETTING
INTO TROUBLE, DRINKING AND USING
DRUGS WITH HER FRIENDS.
>> DURING THE TIME THAT I WAS
BEING ABUSED I WAS REALLY TRYING
TO AVOID BEING AT HOME.
IT WASN'T LIKE I WAS SMOKING POT
BECAUSE I WAS BORED.
FOR ME, IT WAS BECAUSE I- I WAS
SELF-MEDICATING.
I WOULD RATHER BE HIGH THAN
THINK ABOUT THE TWO HOURS UNTIL
I GO HOME KIND OF THING.
>> Reporter: PAZ SAYS SHE KEPT
THE ABUSE SECRET, AND IT MADE
HER DISTRUST AND FEAR ADULTS.
ESPECIALLY THE POLICE.
>> I WAS ALMOST LIKE A CORNERED
DOG.
I WOULD RUN.
IT WAS THE FIGHT OR FLIGHT
MENTALITY.
WHEN YOU HAVE A POLICE OFFICER
TALKING TO YOU, YOU CAN'T FIGHT
THEM OR RUN.
>> Reporter: BUT THAT'S WHAT PAZ
DID.
SHE WAS EXPELLED, AND SAYS SHE
PROBABLY SPENT ABOUT SIX MONTHS
OF HER HIGH SCHOOL YEARS IN
REHAB OR DETENTION.
>> I WAS VERY SCARED.
I WAS VERY, VERY SCARED.
BECAUSE I FELT LIKE THE GIRLS-
LIKE, I ALWAYS FELT LIKE I WAS
THE TOUGHEST OF MY FRIENDS.
AND HERE I AM IN A GROUP FULL OF
PEOPLE THAT ARE ALL TOUGHER THAN
ME.
>> Reporter: PAZ FINALLY FOUND
HELP AT ANOTHER ALTERNATIVE FOR
AT-RISK TEENS: THE PACE CENTER
FOR GIRLS.
A NETWORK OF SCHOOLS FOR GIRLS
STARTED IN JACKSONVILLE 30 YEARS
AGO AS AN ALTERNATIVE TO
INCARCERATION.
IT OFFERS HIGH SCHOOL CLASSES
AND COUNSELING AT 19 SCHOOLS
ACROSS FLORIDA.
PAZ FINALLY TALKED ABOUT HER
ABUSE.
SHE FLOURISHED, WENT TO COLLEGE,
AND THEN LAW SCHOOL.
>> AND IT WASN'T UNTIL AT PACE
THAT I DIDN'T HAVE TO BE THE-
THE TOUGH KID.
I WANTED TO TALK NOT JUST TO MY
FRIENDS, BUT TO MY FAVORITE
COUNSELORS, TO MY FAVORITE
TEACHERS.
AND I STOPPED LOOKING AT ADULTS
AS THE ENEMY, REALLY.
>> Reporter: LAWANDA RAVOIRA,
WHO USED TO BE THE PRESIDENT OF
PACE, SAYS IT'S CRUCIAL TO FIND
OUT WHAT'S DRIVING GIRLS'
CRIMINAL BEHAVIOR.
>> ONE OF THE MAJOR CHALLENGES
THAT WE HAVE IS THAT SO MANY OF
THE GIRLS COMING INTO THE SYSTEM
HAVE SERIOUS MENTAL HEALTH
ISSUES THAT HAVE GONE UNTREATED
AND WE EXPECT THE JUVENILE
JUSTICE SYSTEM TO BE THE MENTAL
HEALTH PROVIDER.
>> Reporter: RAVOIRA'S POLICY
CENTER PARTNERS WITH FLORIDA'S
DEPARTMENT OF JUVENILE JUSTICE
TO PROVIDE THAT CARE.
SOMETIMES THAT'S GROUP THERAPY
FOR GIRLS WHO ARE DETAINED.
>> YOU ALL HAVE POWERFUL VOICES.
TO ME, I SEE A LOT OF LEADERS IN
THIS ROOM.
>> Reporter: AND COUNSELORS LIKE
JENNA KRAMER WILL STICK WITH
THESE GIRLS AFTER THEY GET OUT.
>> SO WHEN YOU'RE BACK AT HOME,
YOU'RE OUT, YOU HAVE THAT
OPPORTUNITY TO MAKE THOSE
SHIFTS.
>> Reporter: THE POLICY CENTER
ALSO HELPS GIRLS INCARCERATED
FAR AWAY STAY IN TOUCH WITH
THEIR FAMILIES AND THERAPISTS
WITH COUNSELING SESSIONS VIA WEB
CAM.
>> YOU CAN DO THIS.
>> Reporter: THE JACKSONVILLE
AREA LOCKS UP GIRLS AT HIGHER
RATES THAN OTHER PARTS OF THE
STATE.
BROOKE BRADY HEADS THE JUVENILE
DIVISION FOR THE LOCAL STATE
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE AND SAYS IT
CAN BE EXPLAINED IN PART BY AN
UPTICK IN VIOLENT CRIME.
>> UNFORTUNATELY, THERE ARE SOME
CASES THAT IT MAY BE A FIRST
OFFENSE, BUT IT'S EXTREMELY
VIOLENT, AND WE FEEL THAT THAT
PERSON'S A DANGER TO THE
COMMUNITY.
>> Reporter: BRADY ALSO SAYS
SOMETIMES HER OFFICE HAS NO
CHOICE BUT TO PURSUE
INCARCERATION FOR GIRLS
REPEATEDLY VIOLATING PROBATION.
>> AND TO GET THEM THE SERVICES
THAT THEY NEED IF THEY'RE NOT
STAYING AT HOME AND COOPERATING
WITH THAT, UNFORTUNATELY,
COMMITMENT'S THE ONLY
ALTERNATIVE AT THAT POINT.
IF THERE'S ANY WAY TO DIVERT A
CASE, WE CERTAINLY LOOK TO DO
THAT.
>> Reporter: BRADY SAYS GIRLS
COURT HAS HELPED HER WITH THAT.
HER OFFICE GETS MORE INFORMATION
ABOUT THE SITUATIONS OF GIRLS
LIKE SOOZEE STUART.
IMPROVING THE CHANCES THEY WILL
GET SERVICES RATHER THAN A
SENTENCE.
>> SOOZEE'S BEEN STRAIGHT FOR A
LONG TIME.
I TRUST HER.
>> Reporter: JUDGE GOODING WORKS
WITH ATTORNEYS ON BOTH SIDES,
PROBATION OFFICERS AND
COUNSELORS TO KEEP GIRLS ON
TRACK.
THEY'VE ALL POOLED EXISTING
RESOURCES TO MAKE GIRLS COURT
HAPPEN.
>> WE TRY TO REACH THE GIRL
WHERE SHE IS.
WE TRY TO PROVIDE A SUPPORT
SYSTEM, NOT ONLY FOR HER, BUT
ALSO HER FAMILY.
WHATEVER THE NEEDS OF THE GIRL
MIGHT BE.
>> Reporter: THE TEAM GOT STUART
COUNSELING AT THE POLICY CENTER
AND INTO THE PACE CENTER FOR
GIRLS.
NOW THEY'RE TRYING TO FIND CHILD
CARE FOR HER TWO-YEAR-OLD
DAUGHTER.
>> YOU'RE MORE ARTICULATE THAN A
LOT OF THE LAWYERS I HEAR.
I KNOW YOU CAN DO THIS.
>> Reporter: FOR THE FIRST TIME,
STUART SAYS, SHE HAS HOPE.
>> EVEN WHEN I DON'T WANT TO DO
IT NO MORE, THEY CONTINUOUSLY
PUSH ME."
NO, YOU HAVE TO DO IT.
REMEMBER, YOU GOT A BABY.
YOU HAVE TO DO IT.
YOU CAN'T GIVE UP."
SO, THEN I START THINKING LIKE
THAT. EVEN WHEN I WANT TO THROW
IN THE TOWEL, I HAVE TO TELL
MYSELF, "NO, I CAN'T.
I CAN'T."
>> Sreenivasan: MEET THREE YOUNG
WOMEN WHO WERE INCARCERATED, AND
TURNED THEIR LIVES AROUND.
VISIT pbs.org/newshour.
ON PBS NEWSHOUR SUNDAY, OUR
COVERAGE FROM EUROPE AND THE
ONGOING MIGRANT AND REFUGEE
CRISIS.
>> THEY JUST THROW FOOD AT US
AND SAY TO US, "STAY, STAY."
>> Sreenivasan: ON THE NEXT
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: AN EXHIBITION OF
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN ARTIFACTS FOUND
BURIED UNDERWATER HAS OPENED TO
THE PUBLIC, IN PARIS.
THE EXHIBIT AT THE ARAB WORLD
INSTITUTE FEATURES 250 ARTIFACTS
FROM A PAIR OF ANCIENT CITIES
DISCOVERED 15 YEARS AGO.
IT TOOK SEVEN YEARS OF
UNDERWATER EXCAVATION TO
RETRIEVE THE ARTIFACTS FROM A 40
SQUARE MILE AREA OF THE
MEDITERRANEAN SEA NEAR
ALEXANDRIA, EGYPT.
THE OBJECTS, COVERED IN SEDIMENT
AND PARTIALLY PROTECTED BY THE
SEA, DATE BACK 2,800 YEARS.
LIKE THIS GIANT TABLET WITH
HIEROGLYPHIC WRITING.
SOME OBJECTS CAME OUT OF THE
WATER ONLY LAST YEAR.
THE FRENCH MARINE ARCHAEOLOGIST
WHO DISCOVERED THE CITIES
BELIEVES THEY BECAME SUBMERGED
1,200 YEARS AGO.
>> (translated): THE CITIES
WERE SUBMERGED BECAUSE OF
NATURAL CALAMITIES, EARTHQUAKES,
BIG TIDES, COLLAPSING OF GROUND,
WHICH MADE IT POSSIBLE THAT SEA
COULD COVER THOSE SITES.
>> Sreenivasan: ONE OF THE
BIGGEST FINDS IS THIS 30-FOOT
STATUE OF A PHARAOH, WHICH THE
ARCHAEOLOGISTS BELIEVE, STOOD AT
THE ENTRANCE TO A TEMPLE NOW
UNDERWATER.
THE ANCIENT CITIES WERE CALLED
THONIS, HERACLEION AND CANOPUS.
MANY OF THE ARTIFACTS ARE
THOUGHT TO BE IN TRIBUTE TO THE
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN GOD, OSIRIS.
>> (translated): THE ARTIFACTS
HAVE AESTHETIC VALUE, BUT AT THE
SAME TIME, THIS SHOWS US THERE
IS A CONTINUITY IN EGYPTIAN
BELIEFS FROM THE ANCIENT PHARAOH
CIVILIZATION AND TO GREEK AND
ROMAN TIMES.
WE HAVE OSIRIS, WHO BECAME
DIONYSUS AND THEN BACCHUS IN
ROMAN TIMES.
>> Sreenivasan: THE EXHIBIT
COMES AT A PRECARIOUS TIME FOR
ANTIQUITIES IN THE MIDDLE EAST,
AS MILITANTS FROM THE ISLAMIC
STATE, OR ISIS, HAVE DESTROYED
ARTIFACTS ACROSS IRAQ AND SYRIA.
>> (translated): WE WANT TO
SAY THAT NO, WE SHOULD TAKE CARE
OF THE WORLD HERITAGE BECAUSE IN
REALITY IT IS NOT ONLY OUR
HERITAGE ONLY, IT IS THE WORLD'S
HERITAGE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE PARIS
EXHIBIT WILL RUN THROUGH
JANUARY, AND THEN TRAVEL TO THE
BRITISH MUSEUM IN LONDON.
>> Sreenivasan: TENNIS HAS AN
IMPROBABLE NEW U.S. OPEN WOMEN'S
SINGLES CHAMPION.
FLAVIA PENNETTA OF ITALY WON THE
TITLE TODAY HERE IN NEW YORK.
SHE BEAT FELLOW ITALIAN ROBERTA
VINCI IN STRAIGHT SETS, 7-6,
6-2.
THE 33-YEAR-OLD PENNETTA IS THE
OLDEST FIRST-TIME GRAND SLAM
SINGLES WINNER.
FOLLOWING THE MATCH, SHE
IMMEDIATELY ANNOUNCED HER
RETIREMENT.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.